
Serial TX/RX UART pair connection
between two distinct microcontrollers,
each with its own 5VDC supply from
USB.  (Laptop-to-laptop driven
development environment, to provide
each microcontroller with its own
USB serial terminal (putty).

23 January 2018 nis@discord Adafruit.

 - - -

BOM

 8 x 1N4148 signal diodes (snubbers)

 1 x half-sized breadboard with jumper (kit)

There are four port pins to interconnect in
this project: TX and RX for each of the two
microcontrollers.  All four pins need protection
from excursions below and above their own Vcc
and GND.  This is done with signal diodes, so
there will be eight 1N4148's used here (two
per port pin!)

Additionally, the two systems need to share a
signal ground, or there will be too much noise
on the line to get a good serial transfer.

The positive supply leads for both targets are
also used, though this is still in experimentation
and may cause issues (looking into that soon).


Therefore, a total of three (four, with Vcc) wires
coming from each microcontoller target board, to
the central meeting zone (breadboard) are used.
That's six (with Vcc, eight) wires total: TXa, TXb,
RXa, RXb, GNDa, GNDb (and 3.3 Vcca, Vccb) where
a and b represent the two microcontroller targets.

Construction begins with the breadboard.

Prepare eight 1N4148 signal diodes, to connect them
to the supply rails.  In this project, the north
half of the breadboard will connect to one of the
two target board's power supply lines (3.3v regulated!
not the 5.0v unregulated feeding the low-drop-out
3.3v regulators -- and their own grounds).

North and south here mean divided by the central area
(where a DIP integrated circuit straddles the two
breadboarding areas).



The 3.3v positive leads of the targets are never
interconnected, though it may be possible (or even
adviseable) to do so in some other project.  More
experimentation and research on that, perhaps later.
For now, do not do so.  (This may change as
results come in).

The jumper kit from Adafruit comes with a half-sized
breadboard, and is color-coded.  Assuming there is
no manufacturing variance on the colors, green and
orange very short jumpers are used as a handy reference
for the lengths of the axial leads of the 1N4148
signal (here, snubber) diodes, before the 90 degree
bend in them to affix them to the breadboard.

For each pair (TX/RX) then, bend the leads of the
signal diodes such that two match the length of the
orange jumper, and two matching the green jumper.
That's eight diodes, four of each bent length (a U
shape after both leads are bent 90 degrees -- here
referred to as a staple shape).

This gives the leads of the diodes a good length to
be correctly placed on the breadboard.  There are
eight such diodes in total (four per microcontroller --
two per port pin).

Place them in series across each of the two power supply
rail pairs, reverse-biased, with a junction in the main
breadboarding area.  Tracing the circuit, start with the
positive rail, and pretend it's been connected in reverse
(to Ground, that is).  Trace through the first diode,
from cathode (banded) end to anode (unbanded, reddish
end of the clear case to the 5-way breadboard join (pick
any row of the 30 available for this).

As they are already pre-bent by this time, they cannot
reach very far away at all from the supply rails, so
this alone gives some idea of their correct placements!

Again, positive rail (as marked on the breadboard in red)
to the cathode end of the first diode.  Anode end of the
first diode to the 5-way join in, say, row 20.  On the
reference design, the lower breadboard area was populated
first, so it's a longer-leaded diode that goes from the
lowest (marked positive) rail, to hole '20b' of the 5-way
junction in row 20.

Definition: columns are single-letter alphabeticals a-j;
rows are numbered 1-30.  Rotated 90 degrees counter-clockwise
is the usual orientation when referencing the 'bottom' and
'top' of the breadboard. (Rails are bottom or top, and the
numbered rows look a lot more like columns in this orientation!)

Second diode is placed just to the right of the first diode,
with opposite polarity: the cathode band of the second diode
is connected to hole '20a' (nearest the rail) and its anode
is connected to the negative rail (marked in blue) nearby.

Tracing this simple circuit, current cannot flow in it because
both diodes are reverse-biased, with respect to the power
supply (and the diodes are now connected in series with one
another across the supply leads).

The port pin will connect to the junction of the diodes!

This protects them from excursions on the port pins above Vcc
or below GND (negative voltages with respect to ground).

They 'clamp' to Vcc and to GND; and are also called 'snubbers'
in this configuration.  (perhaps not; unsure on this nomenclature).

Likewise setup three more port pins, following the same ideas.

Since the breadboard rails are not symmetrical with respect to
the center (straddled) area, its important to reverse the 
orientation of the diodes physically, for the other side of
the board -- while maintaining them identically, electrically
(as in: always reverse-biased with respect to the power supply
rails they are connected across).

The net effect here is that the two sides of the breadboard
will not resemble each other exactly; on the upper half, the
red end (anode) of the diodes goes to the negative (outside)
rail, for the longer-lead length diodes.

That is not exactly the case on the lower half of the breadboard,
where the situation is mechanically reversed: the red (anode)
end of the diodes goes to the same negative rail, but this time,
short-lead length diodes are used, because the negative rail
is now the *inside* rail, unlike the top half of the breadboard!

What remains the same is simple: the shorter lead lengths (of
the two kinds of pre-bent diode leads) are always connected to
the nearest rail, and so the shorter ones are quite a bit shorter
than the others.

Electrically (trace from one supply rail, through each diode,
to its mating supply rail) everything is always identical
here.  It's only mechanically that the problem arises, due to
the parallel (rather than mirrored) orientations of the supply
rails.

This all needs to be simplified verbally (way too long in this
first draft form) and more diagrams could be of benefit.

Easy to write and describe; parsing and reading it, not so much.

TX is D4 Trinket M0
Rx is D3 Trinket M0


Current setup: TX to RX, RX to TX, GND to GND are the three
interconnects between the two systems.

All four port pins have snubbers (series diodes 1N4148) connected
across (local!) Vcc and GND, reversed-biased.  The port is
connected to their junction at a 3-way solder joint (cathode D1,
anode D2, port pin n).

As the other microcontroller is identically configured this
way, that means a total of four 1N4148 diodes meet at the
junction of TX on microcontroller A and RX on microcontroller B;
eight diodes are used in total (four more for the second
UART connection between micros).



```c++
 /*                               Figure A.  Port Pin Snubbers

  +------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                 SAMD21G18a TX-a    Port Pin protection     |
  |                             o       1N4148 snubbers        |
  |                             |                              |
  |                             |                              |
  |   Vcc 3.3V (+)  o----|<-----+------|<------o GND           |
  |                             |                              |
  |                             |                              |
  |                             |                              |
  |                       TX-b  o  to far-end of serial link   |
  +------------------------------------------------------------+
 */
```
Generally, rotate the diagram 90 degrees clockwise, to
view in proper orientation with respect to Vcc and GND.
Also mirror such that the far end of the serial link is
to the right (not to the left, as it would be if the
above diagram were rotated 90 clockwise).
